

1.What is Data Warehouse?
ans:Data Warehouse  is a repository of storing info which is used for queries and analysis process Data warehouse had data which is useful in analysing business 
Data warehouse is also  called as business warehouse and  Business intelligent warehouse and decision supporting system

2.What are the characterstics of data Warehouse?
ans:
1.subject oriented : it deals with specific subject oriented data
2.Time variant : time variation will be there
3.non-volatile : it cannot be changed (non erasable )
4.summarized : the final out come here will be summarized in a simple way

3.Explain the architecture of Data Warehouse?
ans: datawarehouse mainly consists of sequence of four mechanisms
1.OLTP(online transmission processing):here the data will be unstructured oltp main moto is to transfer the data till OLAP
2.STAGING: here in this mechanism data which is in heterogenous from will be changed to homogenous form
3.ETL(Extract transform load): from the name itself it is known that at this positio the homogenous data will be extracted and transformed into a form 
which is used for business entities and loaded to ODS
4.ODS(operational data store):here the small granulated data points are being fed to OLAP
5.OLAP:here the big granulated data is hown fro analysis purpose using bi tools

4. what is OLTP?
ans: OLTP is online transaction processing which will take data from online resources and make it undergo the changes this is the starting step
in the data warehouse model it has operational data which in turn needs to be converted to derived  data

4.1 what is staging?
ans: staging is the second mechanism in data warehouse model here the heterogenous data will be converted into homogenous data 
in this step the data will undergo data mining(extrating valuable data) data cleansing (discarding unwanted data)

5. what is ETL stage?
ans: ETL means extract transform load in this process the data provided by staging will be transformed into different types which makes
analysis simple and it will be loading the data into ODS
 
6. What is ods
ans: operational data store (ODS) is a central database that provides information  of the latest data from multiple transactional systems for 
operational reporting. It enables various units to combine data in its original format from various sources into a single destination
 to make it available for business analysis.
 
7. What is OLAP?
ans: OLAP (for online analytical processing) this contains high granulated massive data it  is software for performing multidimensional analysis 
at high speeds on large volumes of data from a data warehouse this is the final step in data warehouse model 

8.What is DataMart?
ans: Datamart : (subsidiary)subset of larger data warehouse ,structure of data  warehouse 
in data mart  the subject or product wise data of a large data warehouse is available
it is like a sub branch to a company 


9. what is Datawarehouse building methodology? 
ans:
there are two approaches while building dataware house 
1. top-down approach  (first data warehouse is modelled and then data mart will be modelled based on requirements and data)
2.bottom-down approach (first data mart is modelled or built and then data warehouse is built)

10.what is  Data modelling?
ans:Data modeling is the process of creating a simplified representation  of a  system and the data elements it contains,
using text and symbols to represent the data and how it flows. Data models provide a blueprint for designing a new database 
it contains various dimensions measures which helps in knowing the data and the model in detail

11.what are tables?
ans: tables are the data points represented in a tabular format there are various tables available data table and fact table are some of them 
fact table consists of primary key data points and some measures

12. difference between OLTP&OLAP?
ans:
    OLTP                                     OLAP
1.OPERATIONAL DATA                        1.Derived data

2.Can be updated                          2.No updates

3.Application oriented                    3.Subject oriented

4.Detailed info                           4.Summarized info
 

13.difference between OLTP&ODS?
ans:
         OLTP                                    ODS

1.Online transaction processing              1.operational datastore

2.starts transaction                         2. shows data after transaction

3.detailed info                              3. summarized info after transaction


14.difference between dataware house & datamart?
      
         dataware house                           datamart

1.multiple sets of data types                1. single type of data types(specific)

2.large sets of data of different            2. one set of data of busines entities
business entities
 ex:departments and students and              ex: particular students type of data 
professors datas

15. difference between star schema &snowflake schema?
ans:
        star schema                              snowflake schema

1.single fact table surrounded with             1.multiple fact table with multiple dimensions
various dimensions
 
2.multideimensional schema                       2. multideimensional schema      

3. this schema forms star with the fact and      3. this schema forms a snowflake with facts and 
dimensions tables                                   dimensions table

16.difference between er model and dimensions model?
ans:
               er model                             dimension model

1.in er model there is entity relation             1. in dimension model there is dimension relation between them
between them
2. no changes in table in model                      2. various change sin tables of model

17.what are dimensions?
ans:
dimensions are various attributes in tables
there are various types
1. confirmed dimensions
2. degenerate dimensions
3. slowly changing dimensions

18.what is fact?
ans: fact table is nothing but the measurable data attributes in the given data table which consists of calculatable values
ex: product id,emp_salary

19.what are various dimensions
1. confirmed dimensions
2. degenerate dimensions
3. slowly changing dimensions

20. what is scd?
ans:scd means slowly changed dimensions which means the dimensions changing this comes under dimension modelling
various types are 
1. scd1:it shows historic data 
2. scd2: it shows current past and historic values
3. scd3: it shows current and past values

21. fact types:?
there are various fact types
1.Additivefact 
2.semi addictictive fact
3.Non-Additive

22. what is measure?
ans:
measure is a numerically calculatabe values or attributes in the table 
ex: product_quantity,product_sales

23.what is schema and its types:
structure of thr given table is known as schema 
1.star schema
2.snowflake schema
3. multiple schema 

24. what is historical data?
ans:data collected over a period of time is known as historical data
ex:last 10 years sales on black shirts
last quarter sales on masks

25. what is surrogate key?
ans:
A surrogate key is a unique key or primary key which will be added to scd for an entity  or for an object in the database
and arranged in the oreder

26.what is primary key:
ans:primary keys are  constraint uniquely identifies each record in a table
here null values are accepted
ex:productid

27.what is unique key?
ans:a unique key is a candidate key that is not the primary key of the relation.
All the candidate keys of a relation can uniquely identify the records of the relation, 
but only one of them is used as the primary key of the relation.

28.what is OLAP and its types?
ans:
olap is tha online analytics processing this is the last step of the data ware housing it gives high granulated data
which is useful for the business analytics purpose and for preperation of reports
1.RELATIONAL OLAP
2.MULTIDIMENSIONAL OLAP
3.HYBRID OLAP

29. What are olap analysis list?
ans:
Roll-up. : this operation summarizes the data along the dimension.
Drill-down. This allows analysts to navigate deeper among the dimensions of data
Slice. This enables an analyst to take one level of information for display, such as "sales in 2017."
Dice. This allows an analyst to select data from multiple dimensions to analyze
Pivot. Analysts can gain a new view of data by rotating the data axes of the cube.
 
30.what is modern data warehouse architecture?
ans: various steps in modern dataware house are 
1.csv /files reading
2.hdfs
3.datascience algorithms 
4.datawarehouse
5.datamart
6.analysis tools or bi tools






